As I mentioned just a moment ago, we are going with fundamental option number two in this video.
I'm going to tell you one way in which we could get around this really big security issue.
This video is optional.
So if you do not want to hear this explanation, no problem.
Just move on to the next video.
Otherwise, stick around and let's get to it.
Now, I want you to understand right away that we are not going to implement the strategy that I'm going
to suggest here.
And the reason for that is that it is a tremendous amount of extra work, and we already have a lot
on our plate as it stands right now.
So what I'm going to show you is a very viable strategy, without a doubt, but we are not going to
go through it just for the sake of time.
Okay.
So here's the general idea.
We're still going to have user ABC.
I tend to sign in or something like that with some centralized authentication service.
We're going to do the check on email password and they eventually hand back a token.
But here is the big change.
Here is the key.
When we send back that JSON web token or that cookie or whatever it is, we're going to somehow make
sure that that thing is only viable for the next 15 minutes.
How would we do that?
Well, there are mechanisms around JSON Web tokens in particular for making sure that it's really clear
that this token is only viable for some set period of time.
So we can actually have some authentication mechanism that is going to expire after 15 minutes.
That 15 minutes that I'm listing right here is totally arbitrary.
It could be 15 seconds.
It could be 15 days.
For this example, I'm just going to say that we're going to have some mechanism for authentication
that only works for 15 minutes.
So with that in mind, let's now imagine what would happen if user ABC attempted to make a request to
purchase some ticket through our order service.
So again, here's user ABC.
They're going to make a request to purchase a ticket.
And they are going to supply a JSON Web token cookie, whatever that is, 30 minutes old.
So in this scenario, we're going to say that they have some expired mechanism.
So when they make this request, we're then going to ask if this person is logged in.
Because we are following option number two.
We are going to rely upon our order service to take a look at that JSON Web token and decide if the
user is authenticated.
So we're going to run some logic to look at that token and critically inside this logic where you're
going to add something to say.
If that JSON web token is older than 30 minutes, then this person is not authenticated.
If they have an expired token.
There are two ways that we can deal with it very easily.
We can either have our order service or this logic running inside of here attempt to reach out to the
authentication service and get a new refreshed token.
So we could reach out directly with a synchronous request to the authentication service, get a refresh
token, and then when we respond to the overall request, we could include the new refresh token and
send it back to user ABC.
That is one possible approach and it would allow us to refresh the token all in one request while still
achieving the overall goal.
Now the nice thing about this approach is that it requires us, if this token is expired, to reach
out to the authentication service.
And so that would be a time for the authentication service to chime in and say, hey, this person is
banned.
Don't allow them access or something like that.
The other strategy we can take here if we do not want to have the synchronous communication, we could
say that if the JSON web token is older than 30 minutes, then we are just going to reject the overall
request.
So we could return early and send back an error and tell them, Hey, before you make a request to us,
you need to go and refresh your token.
And so rather than doing the synchronous request ourselves, we can tell our client that they have to
go over to the authentication service and refresh that token on their own.
And then once that was done.
Once they got the updated token that would now be, say, 10 seconds old.
Now they can make the follow up request or repeat the same request again to purchase a ticket with the
brand new refresh token.
So this definitely solves kind of the issue.
We still have a window here, a window of 15 minutes where we could potentially ban a user and then
they could continue making requests in the window of those 15 minutes.
And so this is where it really starts to get into your personal implementation, into your application,
and to the requirements of what you are building.
You might be building an app where that 15 minute window is tolerable.
You might be able to say, Oh, yeah, 15 minutes.
No problem.
You could even take it down to 5 minutes or a minute.
And there might be some window of time that you would be happy with and saying, Yeah, if a person
gets banned, they can still make requests in the span of time.
I don't care.
But maybe you are working on some even more secure app where you say, no, there cannot be any period
of time where a user gets banned and then can make follow up requests and still be authenticated.
If that is the case, don't worry, I still got a solution for you.
So if you really need to tighten that window and to make sure that as soon as the user gets marked as
banned, they are effectively banned as quickly as possible.
Here's what we would do.
Get.
So in this approach, we would imagine that a administration user would make a request to ban user ABC.
So very similar to what we discussed before.
Inside of our service, we would have some user management logic and we would reach out to our database
and mark user ABC as not having access anymore.
So effectively they are banned as far as the authentication service is concerned.
But we want to reflect this change immediately with all of our services as well, and we would probably
want to do so using the same communication patterns as we've already seen, in other words, using events
as opposed to synchronous requests.
So here's how we would handle that.
Right after we update the database, we would then also emit a user band event or something very similar
to it.
It'd be some kind of event that says, Hey, all services out there, anyone who's listening do not
allow this user to access the application.
So we had sent that out to our event bus.
And that event that might look like this right here would be sent off to all of our different services.
Then inside each of our services, we could take that information out of that event.
So something that says do not allow access to user ABC and we could persist it in some very short lived
cash or some kind of short lived data store.
Something to say, Hey, here's all the users who should be banned and who we should revoke access to.
Now, the reason I'm saying short lived in memory cache here is that, remember, we don't really want
to be storing a list for all eternity of the users who are banned.
Users might get banned or unbanned all the time.
Who knows?
The reason I'm saying short lived right here is that we can just persist this data for 15 minutes,
the same duration of time as the life cycle or the lifetime of these JSON web tokens.
Because after 15 minutes, we don't need the store anymore.
After 15 minutes, our service is going to immediately no or immediately see that incoming JSON web
tokens are expired.
And so immediately they will reject the request.
But within those 15 minutes, we can temporarily store this information that this user should be banned.
So the reason I'm saying short lived in memory cache here is that we do not need to persist this for
all time.
We only need to persist this list of banned users in each individual service for an amount of time equal
to the lifetime of our authentication mechanism.
So the upside to this approach is that we can immediately ban a user from all of our different services.
The downside is that, well, we have to have some implementation in each service for listening to this
event, storing this list of users, and then comparing whenever we run some authentication logic.
So once again, not that big a deal to add that code into each service because we could implement that
in some shared library.
But again, it is just extra complexity that we need to be aware of.
All right, so that's it.
That is how we could still implement option number two and not have any window whatsoever inside there.
Now, again, we're not going to implement this stuff because really far out there.
And I would really prefer in this course to show you a lot more actual application level business logic
kind of stuff, then go over more and more authentication stuff.
But I did want you to understand that, yes, we can go with option number two and still have a very
secure approach.
Okay.
So now we've gone over this quick pause and we will start to implement option number two in the next
video.